---
title:  "Jekyll Install on Ubuntu 18.04 LTS"
permalink: /2020/01/2020-01-26-02/
categories: Jekyll
---
&nbsp;I've thought of publishing Github pages dealing with programming knowledge and have tried a lot, 
but I gave up every time on organizing the development environment. 
The most common environment for this is to use **Jekyll** platform on macOS. 
However, It is too expensive to buy a MacBook just to create a Github blog. So today, 
I am going to provide you with guided steps on how to install a static site generator called **Jekyll** on a **Ubuntu 18.04 LTS** environment.

## Installing Ruby 
&nbsp;Jekyll is written in Ruby language, which means you must install Ruby before installing it, 
but you might **not** want to just use **"apt-get" pakage manager**(**homebrew** in case of MacOS). this is why: 
Installing Ruby with a pakage manager can get you into such deep trouble because each software written in Ruby(a.k.a **gems**) has different versions of Ruby to be installed with. 
By using **rbenv**, you can change which version of Ruby to use whenever it's needed.
Therefore, The first step you might need to do is to install the Ruby using **rbenv** which is one of the **Ruby version management softwares**

### - Run "apt-get update" command and install all the dependencies 
 Run these commands on shell. The **apt-get update** command will do nothing but update the list of softwares that your system may need.
```bash
 $ sudo apt-get update
 $ sudo apt-get install git-core curl zlib1g-dev build-essential libssl-dev libreadline-dev libyaml-dev libsqlite3-dev sqlite3 libxml2-dev libxslt1-dev libcurl4-openssl-dev software-properties-common libffi-dev nodejs
 ```
 
### - Installing rbenv
```bash
 $ git clone https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv.git ~/.rbenv
```

### - Adding environment variables for Ruby
&nbsp;Check if these variables are added to **~/.bashrc file** after running these commands.
```bash
 $ echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
 $ echo 'eval "$(rbenv init -)"' >> ~/.bashrc
 $ exec $SHELL
 ```
 
### - Installing ruby-build 
```bash
 $ git clone https://github.com/rbenv/ruby-build.git ~/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build
 $ echo 'export PATH="$HOME/.rbenv/plugins/ruby-build/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.bashrc
 $ exec $SHELL
 ```
 
### - Rehashing rbenv
 &nbsp;rbenv creates shims for all the commands ( ruby , irb , rake , gem and so on) across all your installed versions of Ruby. This process is called rehashing. Every time you install a new version of Ruby or install a gem that provides a command, run rbenv rehash to make sure any new commands are shimmed.
```bash
 $ rbenv rehash
 ```
 
### - Installing Ruby with rbenv
&nbsp; The version of Ruby that i'm using currently is 2.6.3 and i haven't had any issues with it, but you can definately choose the version depending on your preference
```bash
 $ rbenv install 2.6.3 
 $ rbenv global 2.6.3 
 $ rbenv rehash 
 ```

### - Installing Jekyll 
&nbsp;If you install Ruby with rbenv, you would probably get **gem** installed together. 
**gem** is one of the gems that Ruby can install, so you can call this gem on you command line. **gem** command is used to install the other gems written in Ruby. This seems to me like it does the same thing as what **apt-get** command does on Linux.
```bash
 $ gem install jekyll
 ```
### - Installing bundler
&nbsp;What bundler does is managing each gem's application depndency. In case that a gem is dependant on the other gem, you can write these dependencies in a file called **Gemfile**, and install those gems easily with a command **bundle install**. 
```bash
 $ gem install bundler
```

## Getting started with Jekyll
### - Create a new Jekyll project
 &nbsp;If you want publish github pages, the format of your project folder's name must be **github_username.githubio**.
 After creating a new Jekyll project with **jekyll new** command, you can run your local server by running **jekyll serve** command and check if you local server works with making a connection to http://localhost:4000.
```bash
 $ Jekyll new project_name  
 $ cd project_name
 ~/project_name $ jekyll serve
```
 
### - Example of Bundler usage
Move to your project's root directory, and then open **Gemfile**
 ```bash
 ~/project_name $ vi Gemfile
 ```
 Add a dependency like below(any line). jekyll_plugins allows us to work with graphical admin pages while you are working on our jekyll project.
 ```bash
 gem 'jekyll-admin', group: :jekyll_plugins
 ```
 Run bundle install command to install the plugin
 ```bash
 $ bundle install
 $ cd ~/project_name
  ~/project_name $ jekyll serve 
 ```
Now we can check if the plugin works by connecting to http://localhost:4000/admin/ 

##### References
[Stack overflow - How do RVM and rbenv actually work?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/9394338/how-do-rvm-and-rbenv-actually-work)